PROJECT MANAGEMENT PROCESS GROUPS
A Project Management Process Group is a logical grouping of project management processes to achieve specific project objectives.
Process Groups are independent of project phases.
Project management processes are grouped into the following five Project Management Process Groups:
uu Initiating Process Group. Those processes performed to define a new project or a new phase of an existing project by obtaining authorization to start the project or phase. uu Planning Process Group. Those processes required to establish the scope of the project, refine the objectives, and define the course of action required to attain the objectives that the project was undertaken to achieve. uu Executing Process Group. Those processes performed to complete the work defined in the project management plan to satisfy the project requirements. uu Monitoring and Controlling Process Group. Those processes required to track, review, and regulate the progress and performance of the project; identify any areas in which changes to the plan are required; and initiate the corresponding changes. uu Closing Process Group. Those processes performed to formally complete or close the project, phase, or contract. Process flow diagrams are used throughout this guide. The project management processes are linked by specific inputs and outputs where the result or outcome of one process may become the input to another process that is not necessarily in the same Process Group. Note that Process Groups are not the same as project phases (see Section 1.2.4.2)